---
ignore-transcript-for-crossref:
   - The Way of Non-Clinging
   - Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 5
   - 0126 Eros Unfettered Part 4
obsidianUIMode: preview
showTopReferringTalks: true
---

#IndexEntry #Robology

### Top 10 referring talks
talk | count | series
:- | - |: -
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]] | 51 | [[2020 Vajra Music]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4]] | 31 | [[2020 Vajra Music]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2]] | 28 | [[2020 Vajra Music]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3]] | 14 | [[2020 Vajra Music]]
[[Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2]] | 14 | [[2017 Eros Unfettered]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 5]] | 4 | [[2020 Vajra Music]]
[[The Way of Non-Clinging Part 2]] | 3 | [[2017 Eros Unfettered]]
[[Counting Within the Breath - Guided Meditation]] | 2 | [[2019 Practising the Jhanas]]
[[The Way of Non-Clinging Part 1]] | 2 | [[2017 Eros Unfettered]]
[[Equanimity in Compassion]] | 2 | [[2007 Lovingkindness and Compassion As a Path to Awakening]]

### Quotes
##### Vajra Music - Preliminaries - Part 1 [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1|(Transcript)]]  ^some-block-pointer
<span class="counts">[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#2-3|2-3]] (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#15-5|15-5]] (3) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-1|16-1]] (3) · **[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-4|16-4]]** (6) · **[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-5|16-5]]** (4) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-6|16-6]] (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#17-1|17-1]] (4) · **[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#17-5|17-5]]** (4) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#18-3|18-3]] (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#18-5|18-5]] (4) · **[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#18-6|18-6]]** (3) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#19-1|19-1]] (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#19-2|19-2]] (4) · **[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#19-3|19-3]]** (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#19-4|19-4]] · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#20-1|20-1]] (5)</span>

> Then you feel or imagine the [[energy body]] extending to fill the room that you're in, so that it touches the walls. This isn't something we would always want to do with the energy body at all. Usually we talk about energy body just a little bit bigger than the [[Embodiment|physical body]], but here, with your primarily kinaesthetic imagination, you're feeling, imagining your energy body extending to fill the room and touch the walls of the room, and the ceiling, and the floor, etc. What does that feel like? Maybe there are some visuals to it, but primarily, you want it kinaesthetic. ([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-4|16-4]])

> The intention here (I'll repeat this at the end) is sensitivity to the [[energy body]], and in this case, also the projected or expanded energy body and the space you're in. So really feeling a sense of sensitivity to the energy body, the sensitivity to the expanded energy body, and the kind of inhabiting or filling of the space you're in. That's the intention. It's primarily about sensitivity. ([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#16-5|16-5]])

> The intention is the sensitivity to the [[energy body]] in the usual-size sense, but also to the much more projected, the larger size - the projected, expanded energy body, and the whole sense, if you like, of the space that you're in, and of inhabiting and filling that space with the energy body, letting the energy body project to fill that space. ([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#17-5|17-5]])

> And maybe, over time, with practice, it might be that the whole range becomes more evenly available, that the sound that you're sounding, that the body is sounding, can emanate full-bloodedly, full-bodiedly, with full presence and full _oomph_ from any place in the body, and you're comfortable... can I have the sense of the whole energy body emanating? ([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#18-6|18-6]])

> What is it to have the [[Energy Body|energy body awareness]], to have the [[awareness]] of the sound, to be really in that, ... and then also open the awareness to the sense of the space around...? And imagine, feel, hear that medium resonating with the sound, filled with the sound. That sound, that [[energy]] that _you_ are sounding, that's coming through you, is filling the space, is reaching the walls. Can you get a kinaesthetic, felt sense, a kinaesthetic [[imaginal]]/imaginative sense, hearing it and feeling it as reaching the walls, the ceiling, the floor, etc., filling the space? ([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#19-3|19-3]])

##### Vajra Music - Preliminaries - Part 2 [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#2-3|2-3]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-1|3-1]] · **[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-2|3-2]]** (4) · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#7-1|7-1]] (3) · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#8-4|8-4]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#9-2|9-2]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#9-4|9-4]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#10-1|10-1]] (2) · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#10-3|10-3]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#11-1|11-1]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#12-1|12-1]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#12-2|12-2]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#12-5|12-5]] (2) · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#13-6|13-6]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#14-5|14-5]] (4) · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#15-1|15-1]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#19-1|19-1]] · [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#19-2|19-2]]</span>

> [T]he [[energy body]] ... is this kind of thing, [[awareness]], this kind of awareness, this kind of [[Embodiment|sense of the body]]; people get a hang of that. But after a while ... that very sense of the energy body can become [[imaginal]], and can be related to as imaginal image. It's not just a sort of basic instrument; it becomes itself an erotic-imaginal object. It becomes [[Soul|ensouled]]. ([[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-2|3-2]])

##### Vajra Music - Preliminaries - Part 3 [[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#4-4|4-4]] · [[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#6-1|6-1]] · [[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#12-1|12-1]] (5) · **[[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#12-2|12-2]]** (4) · **[[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#12-5|12-5]]** (3)</span>

> So for the one who is blessed, it's a task in sensitivity, and opening the [[energy body]] and the senses to that really full relationship with the one who is [[blessing]]. And then tracking, noticing what happens, primarily in the energy body and the [[emotions]], as this person blesses you. One wants to establish that, a really good energy body and emotional sensitivity and [[awareness]]. And then, on top of that, when that's ready - probably that needs to be there before one then opens it up to including any [[Soul|sensing with soul]] or soul-sense of the whole relational field there, and the whole [[experience]] of being blessed, the other, [[the self]], the moment, all of it. <p/>_Vajra Music: Preliminaries Part 3, [[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#12-2|12-2]]_

> So you want to be feeling, sensing the [[energy body]], the resonances in the [[soul]] and the energy body. You want to be putting, as you're [[blessing]], your whole energy body in relationship with the other. ([[0303 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#12-5|12-5]])

##### Vajra Music: Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4 [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">**[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#1-2|1-2]]** (3) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#3-2|3-2]] · **[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#5-2|5-2]]** (6) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#5-3|5-3]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#5-4|5-4]] (3) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#7-1|7-1]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#10-1|10-1]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#11-5|11-5]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#13-2|13-2]] (2) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#14-1|14-1]] (2) · **[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#14-2|14-2]]** (5) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#14-4|14-4]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#16-1|16-1]] · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#20-1|20-1]] (2) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#20-2|20-2]]</span>

> But maybe we think, "What does [[blessing]] look like?" (...) the hands and the palms tracing over the [[energy body]], or even larger than the energy body of the one blessed, and sort of conveying, conferring the [[energy]] of blessing through the hands, over and into that space, penetrating the energy body, the energy field, the being, with blessing through the hands and through that tracing of that movement. _([[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#1-2|1-2]])_

> In terms of instructions, for this exercise, number four, for the witness, the person who's just silently watching, sensing with all their senses, and the [[Energy Body|whole energy body]] (...) if I'm open enough, and the [[Embodiment|whole body]] in relationship, sensing with the whole energy body (we talked about this several times), bringing the whole energy body into sensual relationship there (without touching, in this case), then even the blinking of an eye, I'm going to notice that that has an effect in my energy body, even in my emotional body, and in my [[soul]]. Actually, any movement, any gesture, any vocalization will affect the energy body and, let's say, the [[emotions]]. _([[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#5-2|5-2]])_

> What that means in terms of the movement is that movement, gestures, and vocalizations that you make may not be decipherable to someone else. (...) Much more important is that, so to speak, inner sense: the [[energy body]], the emotional sense, and the [[Soul|soul-sense]], and just how that wants to move the body. The 'how' is I'm not moving it so that it can look like, so that someone could recognize and say, "Oh, it's _that_." It's just: here's the situation that I'm trying to sense into, the kind of moment I'm trying to sense into, and trying to feel that with my whole energy body, and all the resonances in the heart and the soul, and then, what movement or gestures want to come, that express it, that are in response to it, that just hold it, that support the soul-sense? Even there, there are slightly different intentions. And again, I'm using my sense of the soul-resonances, etc., and the energy body sense, the emotional sense, to see: what _does_ help? What helps me cohere the movement, the gesture, the voice, the soul-sense, the energy body, the emotional body there? _([[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#14-2|14-2]])_

##### Eros Unfettered: Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 1 [[0118 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 1|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">**[[0118 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 1#9-2|9-2]]**</span>

> [[Eros]] always involves [[energy]], what we are going to call the [[energy body]], and the energetics; it involves some kind of [[embodiment]], or relationship with body and views of the body and sense of the body; it always involves the [[imaginal]]; and it always involves ideation, intellect, concept, what we are going to call [[logos]]. It always involves all that. _([[0118 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 1#9-2|9-2]])_

##### Eros Unfettered: Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2 [[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">**[[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#4-3|4-3]]** (2) · **[[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#6-1|6-1]]** (4) · [[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#6-4|6-4]] (5) · **[[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#7-1|7-1]]** (3)</span>

> If we are calling [[eros]] a mindstate or state of being, to develop the sensitivity to that without relying on the clues and cues of thoughts. Seeing how the [[energy body]] is affected, developing the sensitivity to that, to the textures of mind and what we might call the space of mind, the subtle mental movements that are there even when there is no thought, or they are underneath or alongside thought. So I, in a way, stand by that in the sense that I can not really see how the kinds of things we are talking about and the capacity to work with them in practice would even be remotely possible without those kinds of sensitivities. We are talking about developing practice in a way that demands quite a lot, and one of the basic things it demands is a sensitivity to the energy body, and a more subtle sensitivity in general to the mind. _([[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#4-3|4-3]])_

> But really the arousal involved with [[eros]] is an arousal of interest. So we talk about the spark, as well. There is an arousal of interest. We are really interested in this beloved. Something engages us, compelling in the best sense of the word. It is really captivating, again in the best sense of the word. The interest is aroused. And also the [[energy body]] is aroused, by which I mean the energy body is energized, it will feel energized; it will feel open; and it will probably feel aligned. _([[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#6-1|6-1]])_

> Okay, so, recognizing [[eros]]. Again, just to run through those. Big spectrum of intensity and subtlety. It involves attraction, that is implicit in it. It includes some kind of felt tension; juiciness certainly, a richness of [[experience]]; dynamism of different kinds, arousal of interest, of the [[energy body]]; autoeroticism, which I will come back to; delight usually accompanies it; and it may involve bliss, this [[pleasantness]], rapturous or joyful, peaceful, beautiful [[feelings]] in the energy body, in the experience of the energy body.  _([[0119 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#7-1|7-1]])_

##### Eros Unfettered: Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3 [[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#7-1|7-1]] · **[[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#7-3|7-3]]** (3) · **[[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#7-4|7-4]]** (5) · **[[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#8-4|8-4]]**</span>

> [42:41] The (8) eighth is the term [[energy body]]. Here I really mean - you know, it can sound like we are talking about something, some kind of New Age idea or sort of esoteric idea. Really I am referring to a mode of attending to the [[experience]] of body - a [[Ways of Looking|way of looking]], again, if we go back to the [[Phenomenology|phenomenological]] approach. The energy body really refers to that, a way of attending to this space, actually a little bit bigger than what appears to be my [[Embodiment|physical body]], and the feeling of that, the sense of that; yes, the [[image]] of it, but also the palpable sense of that field of vibration, texture, [[energy]], et cetera. Really important to stress here there is a real spectrum, there is a wide spectrum, in that experience, so that we can experience a very, very refined field of energy, very insubstantial, ethereal, and that is lovely and actually very important. Sometimes even that goes and there is just a sense of space, which is really the edge of what we might call energy body experience. _([[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#7-3|7-3]])_

> But at the other end, there is also just the sense of something really dense and earthy and solid and very substantial. We can feel the [[energy body]] there. So the energy body refers to that whole spectrum. And it means more than just what many people are familiar with from, say, [[mindfulness]] practice or more conventional or common ways of teaching [[Meditation|insight meditation]] practice - what can seem at times just like this pulsing or flickering field of sensations, or field of hot or cold or pressure, et cetera. Yes, that is a certain kind of, let us say, mode of [[attention]] or feeling of [[experience]] of the energy body, but it actually is much broader than that. There is ways of paying attention and an experience of energy body that are not like either that or the regular sort of solidity we feel. There is really a whole range there. _([[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#7-4|7-4]])_

> I am going to say [[craving]] is a kind of [[desire]] that does not lead to [[soulmaking]]. Actually it leads to a kind of [[contraction]]. Soulmaking is an opening movement, and craving brings contraction. As I said, you can actually feel that in the being, in the body, in the [[energy body]], in the mind, and in lots of other ways which we will go into. _([[0120 Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 3#8-4|8-4]])_

##### Eros Unfettered: Eros Unfettered Part 1 [[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#8-4|8-4]] · [[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#9-2|9-2]] · **[[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#9-3|9-3]]** · **[[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#11-1|11-1]]** (4) · **[[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#11-2|11-2]]** (3) · [[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#11-5|11-5]] · [[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#12-1|12-1]] (2) · **[[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#14-1|14-1]]** (5) · [[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#14-2|14-2]]</span>

> So in other words, one could have a sexual [[image]] arise that one's working with in [[meditation]] and it could be very, very ethereal. The forms, the bodies involved, are just sort of light bodies, maybe of different colors. It is all very kind of insubstantial. The resonances with the [[energy body]] and the tangible [[perception]] of the image is towards the insubstantial end of the [[energy]] bodies. _([[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#9-3|9-3]])_

> So what I did at that point was I went a little deeper into the sense of [[samadhi]] in the [[energy body]]. Remember, all this is connected with that. So okay, the mind can not really settle here on what to connect with as an [[image]], so let us just go deeper into the samadhi sense and feel the subtle body, the energy body. And in doing that, sometimes what can happen with the energy body, and maybe it happens with some people more than others, it is as if the energy body sort of begins to float free of the [[Embodiment|physical body]]. So this is not anything at all to do with being disconnected from the body - there is still this real sense of being really intimate with the feeling in the body, but it is as if the subtle body floats free and sort of flies free of the body. You can feel it flying and oftentimes for me it wants to turn cartwheels or somersaults; there is a kind of exuberant [[Happiness|joy]] in it. _([[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#11-1|11-1]])_

> So I can really feel that very palpably in the [[energy]] field of the body, and I also see it, and it is kind of blue and a kind of white-yellow light. And it feels really good, and [[Happiness|joy]] arises with that. So sometimes for some people it is related to, a possibility that arises, with a certain amount of [[samadhi]]. (...) So what happened, as I went into the [[energy body]], more samadhi, followed this energy body movement, it started to change the [[image]]. There is that [[Dependent Origination|dependent arising]], mutual dependent arising of energy body, mind-state and image, and we are acknowledging all that. _([[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#11-2|11-2]])_

> But more than that, it is like, as I was walking, it felt like that same [[energy]], that same black blood energy, was suffusing into my body as I was walking in the [[Meditation|walking meditation]], from nature. So she was somehow a nature goddess, and I could actually feel this in-surge of energy, this black blood in-surge from nature, suffusing my [[Embodiment|whole body]], my [[Energy Body|whole energy body]]. And in doing that - so I am walking up and down, stopping and standing and walking, and being with this [[image]] in my walking meditation very mindfully - that infusion into the energy body, I actually, my [[Imaginal|imaginal sense]] of my body and the earth transformed as well through that infusion. So my energy body became a dancing god, like very sort of thickset, heavy, muscular, quite a different body than I have in this life at least. This god and my energy body - and I was still, but the energy body was dancing a sort of really energetic, powerful dance, a bit like what I know of the haka, you know, in New Zealand, the All Blacks rugby team and the dance they do trying to intimidate their opposing team before they start. It is fabulous. _([[0123 Eros Unfettered Part 1#14-1|14-1]])_

##### Eros Unfettered: Eros Unfettered Part 2 [[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#3-4|3-4]] · [[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#5-2|5-2]] · [[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#7-4|7-4]] (2) · **[[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#8-6|8-6]]** (3) · [[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#11-3|11-3]]</span>

> So later, I think it was the same day, and I was [[Retreat|on retreat]] at the time, I sat down to meditate and there was, again, tremendous power and expansion. The [[energy body]] really expanding and feeling very imbued with [[energy]] and power. And following that, letting it constellate an [[image]] of [[the self]], of the energy body, it felt like I had become imaginally a wrathful deity, if you know those Tibetan images of Yamantaka and - there is lots of them, but. A wrathful deity or a divine beast, a bestial deity. So again, for me there was roaring and waves of energy passing through the [[imaginal]] body. So I was not actually roaring; no one would have heard anything. This is the imaginal sense. And it really felt very palpable and strong in the [[Embodiment|physical body]] and felt very, very good, what was going on there with the energy body and the imaginal body. _([[0124 Eros Unfettered Part 2#8-6|8-6]])_

\
	
### Food for thought
- a little bit bigger than the body
	- prevent contracting
	- cognitive dissonance for ultra-rationalists
- kineasthetic imaginal sense
- It's a bit like reaching outwards, but of course the question is "from where?"
- The sense of the energy body is an object in awareness, so when I completely fill out the energy body, feel it from within, then this happens from where perspective-making happens. That feels like it's impossible

A good way to train the [[energy body]] is to continue to focus in the foreground on whatever it is what we want to focus on, right now, and at the same time feeling into a bodily awareness, e.g. breath movements. The idea is to stretch out attention and differentiate it into a foreground and background part, happening at the same time. This decouples the felt body from the foreground, at the same time establishes it as something which can happen in the background all the time (which is what we want to establish).

### Related concepts
- Breath Energy (TB)
- Shiné, all-around awareness
- (Griffero 2017) Felt-bodily resonances.pdf

### Paragraphs with 4+ mentions
description | count | talk
:- | : - | :-
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#Witness is just noticing albeit by bringing the whole energy body into sensual relationship \|Witness is just noticing (albeit by bringing the whole energy body into sensual relationship) ]] | 6 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1# Excercise 1 1 fill the room with the energy body\| Excercise 1.1: fill the room with the energy body]] | 6 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#It's not important to recognise the situation from the outside it's more important to resonate in the heart and the soul\|It's not important to recognise the situation from the outside, it's more important to resonate in the heart and the soul]] | 5 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#The blessed one is not responding but is sensitive with the energy body\|The blessed one is not responding but is sensitive with the energy body]] | 5 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#Summary of the excercises\|Summary of the excercises]] | 5 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#The "bliss" of soulmaking"\|The "bliss" of soulmaking"]] | 5 | [[Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3#Include sensing with soul the whole relational field\|Include sensing with soul the whole relational field]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 3]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#Energy body excercises open towards relating to it as imaginal image\|Energy body excercises open towards relating to it as imaginal image]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#Interview situation opening up to a whole new sense of self "wow"\|Interview situation: opening up to a whole new sense of self, "wow"]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#It's about sensitivity\|It's about sensitivity]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#The kinaesthetic sense of energy fills the whole space\|The kinaesthetic sense of energy fills the whole space]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#let the energy body project to fill the space\|let the energy body project to fill the space]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1# Excercise 2 1 Feel where the sound is coming from against energy body background\| Excercise 2.1: Feel where the sound is coming from, against energy body background]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1# Excercise 2 3 mix sound and energy body\| Excercise 2.3: mix sound and energy body]] | 4 | [[Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]]
[[Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2#Arousal of interest and resonances in the energy body\|Arousal of interest and resonances in the energy body]] | 4 | [[Dilemmas and Delineations - How did we get here Part 2]]

