---
obsidianUIMode: preview
showTop10ReferringTranscripts: true
---
#IndexEntry #Robology

### Top 10 referring transcripts
[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1]] (12)
[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2]] (12)
[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4]] (5)

### Quotes
##### Vajra Music: Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1 [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">**[[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#1-2|1-2]]** (4) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#1-3|1-3]] · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#1-4|1-4]] · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#3-2|3-2]] · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#12-1|12-1]] (2) · [[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#15-4|15-4]] (3)</span>

> So a few things I wanted to offer. And really, mostly they're kind of exercises. That's the way I'm thinking about them, like _études_, or exercises, or [[preliminaries]], if you know that word that's used in [[Tibetan Buddhism|Tibetan Buddhist]] circles - preliminary exercises, preliminary trainings, preliminary requirements, preliminary developments. Of course, it's a little strange, however many years we are into unfolding the [[Soulmaking|soulmaking teachings]], to start now putting out, beginning to accrue a set of preliminary exercises, but the teachings have grown very organically and, as we grow, we kind of recognize, "Ah, this is needed. That's needed. This is what we need to add here." So, it doesn't matter. Anyway. _([[0301 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 1#1-2|1-2]])_

##### Vajra Music: Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2 [[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">**[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-1|3-1]]** (7) · **[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-2|3-2]]** · **[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-4|3-4]]** (3) · **[[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#6-3|6-3]]**</span>

> And we talked about, we used this language of '[[preliminaries]]' and 'exercises.' (...) they're also already presupposing _other_ preliminaries (for example, [[mindfulness]], some degree of [[Energy Body|energy body awareness]]). So they're also preliminaries that are resting on other preliminaries, you could say. (...) some of what we might call 'preliminaries,' ... can then become [[Soul|ensouled]].  _([[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-1|3-1]])_

> So this, what is a kind of prerequisite or preliminary, can then become an [[Soul|ensouled]] area, and grow and be developed to other levels that we had never, never even anticipated or intuited or dreamt of. This is very clear, for example, if we take two areas that we can consider as [[preliminaries]]: the [[energy body]] - and we've seen energy body is this kind of thing, [[awareness]], this kind of awareness, this kind of [[Embodiment|sense of the body]]; people get a hang of that. But after a while, we talked about the imaginal-energy body, that that very sense of the energy body can become [[imaginal]], and can be related to as imaginal image. It's not just a sort of basic instrument; it becomes itself an erotic-imaginal object. ... It becomes alive and ensouled. ...  And the whole thing just kind of balloons out exponentially to include other possibilities. So that would be one example of a preliminary or prerequisite that then becomes ensouled, and then just completely opens out, actually infinitely, to other possibilities. _([[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-2|3-2]])_

> Why even _think_ in terms of exercises or [[preliminaries]]? As I said, we can just hope that the [[soulmaking dynamic]] ... does is it will expand things. It will expand its range. It will include more and more. And it will expand something that it's kind of got in its vortex, in its dynamics - some area or aspect of our being or our life. It expands that area. We expand with it. Our [[Insight|understanding]] and our [[experience]] of that area or aspect of being expands with it, or shatters in the [[Vessel|breaking of the vessels]], and then has to be built in a larger way, a deeper, fuller, more far-reaching way. _([[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#3-4|3-4]])_

> They're little, small pieces, but they're indispensable - both. They're not super central, a super big deal, but they're indispensable - both.(...) We probably want to avoid two extremes here. I say they're small pieces; therefore, one hears, "Nah, it's not important," and one maybe never bothers to do these exercises. Or, "Well, okay. I'll do them once or twice." That would be one extreme, and I think it would be probably a mistake for most people. _([[0302 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 2#6-3|6-3]])_

##### Vajra Music: Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4 [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4|(Transcript)]]
<span class="counts">[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#22-5|22-5]] · **[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#23-1|23-1]]** · **[[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#23-2|23-2]]** (2) · [[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#23-3|23-3]]</span>

> If you ask, say, a Tibetan rinpoche (...) what they spend most of their formal practice time doing, they still, even after many years, spend perhaps most of their time doing what are basically preliminary exercises. [[Ngöndro]] ... So yes, 'preliminary' as in, "This needs to come first. This is what precedes." But it doesn't necessarily mean that then, "Okay, now I've done that ... and I can just do my sort of more advanced practice." _([[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#23-1|23-1]])_

> I'm not really sure about this word, 'preliminary.' I'm partly picking it and using it because there _are_ [[preliminaries]], as I've tried to explain, to certain areas, directions, domains of our being and our life's opening up with [[soul]]. So in some ways they _are_ preliminaries. But also, as we've explained, they can be expanded, stretched, developed. They can become [[soulmaking]] in themselves. They can become extraordinary and not basic at all. _([[0304 Preliminaries Regarding Voice, Movement, and Gesture - Part 4#23-2|23-2]])_
